hi oh this is my last chapter on
reflections the puzzles in this video
are slightly harder than the ones I put
in the first chapter so I suggest that
you pause the video at every position so
that you can test yourself there are six
puzzles in this video so you can
evaluate your understanding of chess
tactics depending on your score out of
twenty the points for each puzzle are
mentioned in the comment section anyway
here it's white to play a couple of
things to notice for white our one night
capture d7 is a check and to Black's
back rank is very weak combining these
two ideas white plays Quincy six now
black has two options one is to play
Queen captures Queen and the other is to
play rook d8 both have the same
consequences let's see what happens as
Queen captures Queen play would continue
as follows and now white is a bishop
alternatively if black decides to play
rook d8 at this point of the game he
still loses it's dark colored bishop
this is a very interesting position it's
White's turn white has a brilliant
combination that completely turns around
the game why it starts with c7 check
after this black is forced to capture on
c7 otherwise the pawn will Queen and
that will be made so you can cap
the sting all over the screen both are
winning for weight let's first see what
happens if Queen captures season after
Queen capture Cecil blacks King and
Queen are aligned on the same diagonal
another thing to notice is that if the
Queen was moved to a five-night c6 would
for blacks king and queen this would be
enough for white to win thus white now
plays Bishop e5 pinning the Queen to the
king after this move it's all over for
black he has no way out
Queen captures Bishop is followed by
knight c6 and now after all the smoke is
clear why it has an easy win why it
should be able to win from here now
let's go back to the initial position
and see what happens if King captures c7
well the same sequence follows on
another diagonal LT runs through the
moves as you can see this is just the
same for white and white is winning why
it has an easy win just as in the
previous position this is another
classic position it's white to plain in
this position White's two rooks proved
to be more powerful than blacks Queen in
fact after the sequence white ends up
with a winning advantage pause the video
and see if you can find the best
combination for whites
well white plays rook a for this move
threatens rook h3 mates so Queen
captures rook is forced now rook h3 is
played which compels blacks King to move
to the fourth rack
in turn sets up a skewer Brooke h4 wins
the black queen
now why did I look up and should I have
an easy win from here this is the
position from one of my recent 3-minute
blitz names it's white to play
I was playing white and I just found a
series of reflecting moves in a room
let's see if you can find them the key
mistake that black made was that he left
too many pieces under protected blacks
whole eighth-ranked has so many loose
pieces one totally loose bishop and two
minor pieces protected solely by the
king keeping this in mind white plays
Bishop captures night after d5 capital
Bishop white totally destroys blacks
back rank with the following
continuation rook captures Bishop King
captures rook rook captures Knight ting
e7 and finally rook captures Bishop now
why it is significantly up material in
this puzzle it's black to play and mate
in exactly two moves can you spot the
mate okay Black's first move is Queen b1
check for sinking b1 his next move is
rook b1 mate now Queen b1 is not a very
easy move to find but the purpose of
this move is very clear it deflects the
King to b1 and prepares rook d1 notice
that the e6 Bishop prevents King a2
without that Bishop the whole sequence
would have failed have a look at this
position it's White's turn see if we can
find the best combination for well white
starts with Knight f6 check this folks
blacks king and queen but more
importantly
threatens a checkmate into blacks best
try is to play King edge a and let his
Queen be taken however if black decides
to play Bishop captures right where it
is
with queen g6 check exploiting the pin
on the f7 pawn
now the king goes to etch it is only
square and white mates with Queen edge
sell their widest mate black should have
played King h8 earlier as I mentioned
this would unpin the f7 pawn and prevent
Queen g6